# Vitis-labrusca-Version-2-Genome-Annotation
The 2nd version of the Vitis labrusca genome annotation as released in 2024 from the Gschwend Grapevine Genetics Laboratory at The Ohio State University as first referenced in the manuscript 'Trichomes and Unique Gene Expression Confer Insect Herbivory Resistance in Vitis labrusca Grapevines' by Dixon & Gschwend.  The accession employed for the creation of this gene annotation was Vitis labrusca acc. 'GREM4', the same accession used by the Gschwend Lab by Li & Gschwend 2023 (Vitis labrusca genome assembly reveals diversification between wild and cultivated grapevine genomes) for the original annotation.

This folder contains all of the genes named as per their 'Data Analysis' nomenclature as well as their 'Finalized' nomenclature.  The 'Data Analysis' nomenclature was used for all data analyses as they were the names which were created by the gene annotation updating program used to make version 2 of the genome for V. labrusca acc. 'GREM4'.  At that time, these names were then retained for downstream data analyses.  The 'Finalized' nomenclature is the nomenclature that is found within the manuscript.  This is the nomenclature that should be used for all future studies pertaining to Vitis labrusca acc. 'GREM4'.  Rest assured that the data found within each nomenclature system's folder is identical otherwise.  Both nomenclature systems' data was provided as, depending on the purpose of your exploration of the data, you may wish to know the gene names in one nomenclature system or the other.

To aid in the conversion from 'Data Analysis' nomenclature to 'Finalized' nomenclature, or vice versa, the 'V_labrusca_Data_Analysis_to_Finalized_Gene_ID_Conversion_Table' is provided.  This is a spreadsheet which provides the gene naming conversion from one system to the other for all 'GREM4' genes.  To simplify future studies, we ask that all future researchers use the 'Finalized' nomenclature, to keep naming consistent, clear, and concise.

Additionally, the functional annotation can also be found as its own separate folder with data within pertaining to the functional annotation of the annotated genes.
